hello this is pressure Locker and this
is part two of the five-part series on
how to solve the Rubik's Cube in this
video we're going to go over the move
notation which will be extremely
important to understanding the sequences
of moves in the lair method
before we get started solving the cube I
want to explain rubik's cube move
notation this will be extremely
important for following the directions
in the remaining videos we orient the
cube dependent on the face we're looking
at if we rotate the face we're looking
at 90 degrees clockwise that move is
called F if we do F a second time that
rotates at 90 degrees clockwise once
more this is F a third time and here's F
a fourth time which brings the front
face back to its original position if we
rotate the front face ninety degrees
counterclockwise that's known as F prime
or F inverse and similarly we can keep
doing this multiple times so here's F
prime done three times and here's F
prime for fourth time the other sides of
the cube are given positions relative to
the face or looking at for example if we
look at the face to the right of the
face we're looking at the side to the
right of what we're looking at a 90
degrees clockwise move is denoted R 4
right we can repeat the move of our 4
times and bring the right side back to
the original position there's also the
move of our prime or our inverse which
is a 90 degrees counterclockwise move
the side which is on the left of what
we're looking at we can move it the move
L is a 90 degrees clockwise move
relative to that face
so after repeatedly doing L four times
we get back to the original position L
prime is counterclockwise and we can
repeatedly do that move to change the
left side the side which is on the top
or up this is the move U which is a 90
degrees clockwise move and here we bring
you once more and bring it back to the
original position if we rotate the upper
face 90 degrees counterclockwise
that's u prime or u inverse
finally there's the side which is down
the bottom side will call down so the
move of D is a 90 degrees clockwise move
of the bottom side of the cube relative
to what we're looking at similarly if we
go counterclockwise 90 degrees that will
be down inverse or down Prime
there's also a back face and you could
similarly add notation to that but we're
not going to need it for any of the
moves in our videos I hope you like this
video please click through to watch the
next video which explains how to solve
the first layer of the cube please
subscribe to my channel you can support
me on patreon for exclusive rewards
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
on Twitter at pressure locker and you
can get my books listed on my website